.Dd July 10, 2021
.Dt S7 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm S7
.Nd Readers
.Sh LIBRARY
libs7, -ls7
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In s7.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Leaving aside this case [multi- and in-line comments] and the booleans, #f and #t, you can specify your own handlers for tokens that start with "#". *#readers* is a list of pairs: (char . func). "char" refers to the first character after the sharp sign (#). "func" is a function of one argument, the string that follows the #-sign up to the next delimiter. "func" is called when #<char> is encountered. If it returns something other than #f, the #-expression is replaced with that value. Scheme has several predefined #-readers for cases such as #b1, #\a, and so on, but you can override these if you like. If the string passed in is not the complete #-expression, the function can use read-char or read to get the rest.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To implement read-time hash-tables using #h(...):
.Bd -literal -offset indent
(set! *#readers*
      (cons (cons #\h (lambda (str)
			(and (string=? str "h") ; #h(...)
			     (apply hash-table (read)))))
	    *#readers*))

(display #h(:a 1)) (newline)
(display #h(:a 1 :b "str")) (newline)
These can be made immutable by (immutable! (apply...)), or even better,

(let ((h (apply hash-table (read))))
  (if (> (*s7* 'safety) 1) (immutable! h) h))
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset indent
verbatim code here...
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s7_c_object_let 3 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Bill Schottstaedt Aq Mt bil@ccrma.stanford.edu
.An Mike Scholz
provided the FreeBSD support (complex trig funcs, etc)
.An Rick Taube, Andrew Burnson, Donny Ward, and Greg Santucci
provided the MS Visual C++ support
.An Kjetil Matheussen
provided the mingw support
.An chai xiaoxiang
provided the msys2 support
